# Creactive-Citizen
In Creactive Citizen, a digital participation platform for citizens, the public and stakeholders is to be developed in order to support digital citizen participation in the context of infrastructure projects (e.g. wind power, grid expansion, transport) and urban and regional development measures (e.g. new building construction, design and revitalization of public spaces). .

A digital basis for participation will be created in which various functions will be combined in order to enable citizens to participate as transparently and fairly as possible. For this purpose, the previously informal exchange on social network sites should be integrated and ideally coupled with offline participation instruments in order to use synergies and avoid possible conflicts between online and offline participation. In addition, innovative approaches should be used, for example to visualize construction measures or changes in public space. Technologies such as augmented reality are conceivable for the visualization and should be tested within the project period. This is intended to create a basis for discussions, comments and votes.

For the implementation, a practice and information analysis is first carried out, in which both theory-based research results and concrete practical experiences from municipalities are collected, compared and evaluated in order to obtain a basis for the concrete concept development of the platform. As part of a user-centered design approach, specific data is collected early on and functions for the participation tool are developed in direct exchange with citizens and stakeholders. Concrete implementations in demonstrators are tested, monitored and evaluated in selected model municipalities and projects.

The project, funded by EFRE.NRW, is carried out in cooperation with Dr. Jörg Radtke (Faculty I, Political Science) and the company GeoMobile GmbH from Dortmund
